# Journal-Week-10

## What I learned: November 30- December 4 edition

Week number 10 is upon us...As all of the previous weeks, this one also went pretty quickly. The difference of this one is the heavy conclusion that ended with. It’s not like I didn´t see a tendency in the past phase, but I wanted to keep on trying!! The reality of this is that I’m nowhere near the level that a software developer, the Academy program (and an encorian, for that matter) would expect from me. Now that I analyzed the situation more calmly, that is the conclusion. I was lucky enough to talk with 2 very prepared persons, where we checked some of the points of the program, how I felt in the work, things like that. Well, I didn’t have any problem with anybody, and I tried to do all of the tasks that were assigned to me. The energy was there (and it’s still there), the problem was that it couldn’t be printed into good and effective work. 

More on that later, right now, is about this week, the issues in an Open Source project. First of all, I must say, the people who are in this environment have my respects! I chose Python as my main stack, and while looking through projects and issues, I saw some comments, of people asking if they could participate in an issue. The project owners were very polite, and most of them told right away where you could fix the issue. It’s amazing to see that! Knowing exactly at what line the issue can be solved! While I tried to do issues, I started to see myself in trouble, where I had to minutiously check every new class or implementation that I saw, just to know what they did. Now, I understand this is the way, you can’t make a critic of a book if you don’t know how to read. Something similar goes to coding, where you need to know what thing does what. So, here we are...with my own chosen stack, and I was having trouble. The elephant in the room is getting bigger huh? I wasn't able to make a PR through the week...

I felt sometimes like I was bumping into walls every 2 steps, making so little progress, while I saw my teammates do some heavy development of the project. Another detail that I noticed was how fast some of my teammates got immediately an explanation of a problem, or even how they came up with a quick way to solve an issue. I would need to slow down  and analyze the situation, usually needing more time to get to the same conclusion that my teammates found a while ago. Of course, trying to keep up is hard, and it’s a mind-absorbing-activity, doing a project of this magnitude (well, it was big for me, because it was the first project of this kind that I did). Also, the need to maintain the spirits up was energy-absorbing. 

This often left me burned-out, thinking about if going further would be a good idea or not. Please, don’t read this in a depressive way. I’m trying to say it like a continuous thought of what I’ve been doing. Of course, I’ve been learning a whole new world, a whole new environment. The things I knew about coding and programming were good, but I think they were just the surface (I believe I said something similar last week, my apologies). In the talk with these 2 persons, and looking back to the second phase, I believe that maybe my own objectives differed from the objectives of Encora. At first, I thought that I needed the basics of programming to then go to a Data Science job. This was half right. I do need some bases, but the developer path is a little different from the data science one. Yes, you need programming bases,  but you also need to know about math, statistics, things that along with the coding ability, go along into making yourself a complete data science professional.

After seeing all of the details in the conversation, we came to the conclusion to end the program when this phase ends, along with a little change of focus, on these last 3 weeks. It’s been great to be here, being able to see these kinds of projects closer. Unluckily for me, it wasn’t my time, but no, I’m not saying it in a bad way. There is a lot to study for me, and I believe that I’ve found how a path to data scientist may begin. While I’m on that, I could be tempted to study more of the front end (I liked it). Who knows what the future holds, perhaps I’ll fall in love with FrontEnd (after getting to know it well), or maybe I’ll stick with the Data Science path.

That’s it from me! I hope you enjoyed the lecture! If you have any questions, just let me know!
